---
title: "Characterizing cities from their multiplex infrastructure patterns"
collection: talks
type: "Conference presentation"
permalink: /talks/2018-SICC
venue: "Politecnico Di Torino, ComplexCity@PoliTo"
date: 2018-10-29
location: "Turin, Italy"
---

Cities and their mobility infrastructure can be modeled as multiplex networks [1, 2, 3, 4], where each layer consists of a specific set of links (pedestrian, and bicycle infrastructure, streets, and public transportation systems) and nodes represent intersections, see Figure 1. Each of these layers plays a different role in the hierarchy of the urban transportation system.

The multiplex structure of each city represents a unique profile that can reveal the spatial overlapping of different modes of transportation, and the roles of nodes (intersections) in the city.  
We work with fifteen different cities from around the world. For each city we obtain its corresponding node/edge overlap [5] profile that shows their activity in the different layers, see Figure 2.

We generated an overlap census that captures the percentage of nodes/edges that are present between different combinations of layers for each city. The overlap census reveals similar multiplex structures between different cities around the world. Some of these cities fall into distinct classes according to their transport layer characteristics - for example, Copenhagen and Amsterdam are distinct in their role of prioritizing cycling networks. Our preliminary results demonstrate a novel method that quantifies rigorously the development, the priorities, and the shortcomings of transport networks in cities. This approach also outlines the pathways from car centric towards sustainable cities by taking advantage of the yet largely untapped potential for multi-modal mobility.

References
---
[1] M.KurantandP.Thiran,“LayeredComplexNetworks,”vol.20,2005.
[2] E.Strano,S.Shai,S.Dobson,andM.Barthelemy,“Multiplexnetworksinmetropolitanareas:genericfeaturesandlocaleffects,” Journal of the Royal Society, Interface, vol. 12, no. 111, p. 20150651, oct 2015.
[3] R.GallottiandM.Barthelemy,“ThemultilayertemporalnetworkofpublictransportinGreatBritain,”ScientificData,vol.2,2015.
[4] A.Aleta,S.Meloni,andY.Moreno,“AMultilayerperspectivefortheanalysisofurbantransportationsystems,”ScientificReports, vol. 7, 2017.
[5] F.Battiston,V.Nicosia,andV.Latora,“Structuralmeasuresformultiplexnetworks,”PhysicalReviewE-Statistical,Nonlinear,and Soft Matter Physics, vol. 89, no. 3, pp. 1–16, 2014.
